Hi guys.
In this lab I want to talk to you some more about security groups.
As I've mentioned before security groups are firewalls that are applied at the instance level.
So they actually look for traffic that's going into and out of the plastic interface is connected to
your instance.
You can have multiple instances in the same security group and you can have multiple security groups
applied to an instance.
So what we see here is we have two instances instance a an instance B and they're both in the web access
security group and the SEC Group a security group.
Let's imagine that the SEC Group a security group enables ICMP pain.
So that means that these instances can send ping packets to each other.
A key fact about security groups is their state file.
And that means if you allow an inbound connection the response traffic is always allowed.
And we'll see more about that soon what we're going to do now is we're actually going to launch two
instances and we're going to set up this configuration.
So let's head over to the AWB management console so I mean the easy to management console and I'm going
to select launch instance and then choose Amazon Linux to EMI.
I'm going to choose the T2 micro.
I'm going to change to two instances and they're going to go into my default VPC.
I don't care which subnets they go in.
It should spread them into two different subnets and they're going to get public IP addresses.
So that's all I need at the moment and I'm going to choose the security group as web access.
So that will give us the port 22 that we need to be able to secure shell into these instances
just then go and choose launch with knowledge and launch instances
so those will take a couple of minutes to launch.
So that's took a few minutes and they're both initializing but they're both running so I think I'll
be at a connect to these now.
So what I'm going to do is copy the IP address to my clipboard of one of them and I'm going to head
over and secure shell into that instance
and I'm in.
So I'm going to clear my screen just to make things a bit clearer.
And now I'm going to go and get the IP address of the second instance
so we now have a secure shell sessions of both instances.
Now what I can do is I want to actually try and ping from one instance to the other instance to do that.
I'll need the private IP address and you can even get that from the console here or you can actually
see it in the text here before our command line.
So what I'm going to try and do is ping from this instance to the one on the right hand side
so I've put in its IP address and that's why I'm paying
and it doesn't look like that's working.
That's stop the connection and we can see 100 percent packet loss and let's try and do it the other
way around.
Paying 1 7 to 31 1 1 5 1 and hit enter and exactly the same thing is going to happen.
It's not going to happen because we don't have anything in our security groups that are allowing that
connection so let's go back and what we're going to do is create a new security group.
I'm going to click Create security group and I'm going to call this SEC group A and then I'm going to
copy that and put it into the description what I'm going to do is just save the security group and I'm
going to create a new security group as well which we're going to be using shortly in Islam and I will
call this one sec Group B.
And again I'm just going to copy that and paste it in and I'm not going to create any rules and now
what I want to do is I'm going to go back to set group a to edit and I'm going to add a rule and I'm
going to choose all ICMP V4 and I'm going to type S G and I can see my security groups.
So I'm going to choose the security group itself.
So what that means is this rule will allow inbound traffic on ICMP protocol from the security group
itself.
So that means members of the security group.
So any instance that's a member of this security group will be able to send ICMP data to other instances
that are members of the security group but no one else will.
So I can choose safe and we can now go back up to our instances
and I'm going to choose each instance go to networking change security groups and add in set Group A
We now go back to the command line and rerun those commands.
So let's try and paying instance be and that's working fine and now let's try and paying instance a
for instance B and that's working fine as well.
So that rule has allowed these instances to be able to send ping data to each other.
Let's go back and swap instance B into SEC group B
and now let's rerun those commands.
So we'll try and paying again and that doesn't work and we'll try and pay again.
And that doesn't work.
So what we've done now is we've enabled this configuration.
So we have instance a insect repay an instance B in SEC group B.
The problem is SEC group a is the only one that has a rule and it only allows access from members of
its own security group.
So we need to change the rules sets now.
So let's go back and see how we do that
what we need to do is go to security groups go to SEC group a and instead we're going to pull that out
and choose set group B.
So now we'll have inbound access on ICMP from SEC Group B we save that rule.
We should find that we can now ping instance a from instance B and that works fine.
Notice how quick this is the instant you change it it takes effect.
So security groups have immediate changes applied.
Now the other way around isn't working still.
So we still can't ping instance B from instance say so let's go back and change the obvious security
group.
So in this case we need to change security group B and add a rule that allows ICMP V4 from security
group a and now let's go back and try that so that's great that's working we can now ping in both directions.
Now you'll notice that there's no return rules.
If we go back to our security groups in outbound we already have a rule that says all traffic can go
outbound but we don't actually need that because as long as the inbound rule allows the traffic inbound
the return traffic will go out regardless.
We could actually go in here and remove that from both security groups
and let's go back and see if our ping works and it still works in both directions so security groups
to stifle the changes are applied immediately.
You can specify inbound and outbound rules and you can use your source or your destination can be a
IP address a site a block or a security group.
So there's a few things to understand and we're actually going to be able to use these and put some
of this into practice for out this course.
And this is really just a sort of start scratching the surface.
We're going to get into a lot more detail later in the course.
We don't actually need these security groups anymore but they're attached to our instances.
What we need to do is go and terminate our instances which we don't need anymore.
So again to terminate both of these and they're going to get shut down and once that's done we'll be
able to go back and delete our security groups.
However you will run into a problem if you try and delete them now as long as you have another security
group referenced you won't actually be had to delete it.
So we can go to inbound rule just delete that rule do the same on the other security group and save
that and now we should be able to delete the security groups and now we should be able to delete the
security groups
and they're both gone and that's it for this lab guys.
I hope you're learning lots and enjoying the process in the next lab.
We're going to discuss instant metadata.